[![[Goose]](../../../images/goose.gif)](../../../index.html)

The Other Bloomsday - Press Release
===================================

The Wild Geese Players of Seattle will once again be offering a [staged
reading](./2004.html) of James Joyce's *Ulysses* called 'The Other
Bloomsday'. This is the seventh year that the group has performed the
work. This year is rather special as it is the centenary of Bloomsday,
June 16th 1904, the day immortalized by Joyce in Ulysses. Chapter 10,
The Wandering Rocks, will be performed. This chapter has been described
as a labyrinth that summarizes the day so far, and gives premonitions of
the tale to come! The reading will be on Bloomsday, Wednesday, June 16th
at 7.30pm in the Brechemin Auditorium at the University of Washington
School of Music. A second reading will be held on Saturday June 19th at
3pm, at the Brechemin Auditorium. This is the time that the chapter
takes place, so the audience can experience the experience in 'real
time'! The reading is directed by UW child psychiatrist Kieran Darragh
O'Malley and includes a multitude of local Irish diaspora and local
actors. The Bloomsday reading will be followed by a true celtic
celebration of Joyce, conversation, music and craic! Admission is free,
as always, but donations will be gratefully accepted and appreciated!

Listen to an interview with director Kieran O'Malley on the NPR show
[The Beat](http://www.kuow.org/TheBeat.asp) at 2pm, June 16th,
Bloomsday.

Further Information:
--------------------

Mary Kelly, Publicity: 206 528-1988\
 Kieran O'Malley: 206 543-7155\
 [www.wildgeeseseattle.org](http://www.wildgeeseseattle.org/)
