[![[Goose]](../../images/goose.gif)](../../index.html)

The Other Bloomsday - Seattle 2004
==================================

![[James Joyce]](../images/jj1.jpg)

James Joyce's novel *Ulysses* takes place on June 16th, 1904. It follows
the wanderings of Leopold Bloom, a Jewish everyman, and Stephen Dedalus,
a young writer and Joyce's *alter ego*, as they wander the streets of
Dublin.

The centenary of [Bloomsday](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bloomsday),
June 16th, 2004, is being celebrated
[worldwide](http://www.rejoycedublin2004.com "ReJoyce Dublin 2004").

The Wild Geese Players of Seattle will present staged readings of
chapter 10, "Wandering Rocks", adapted from the 1922 edition of
*Ulysses*. The readings will take place at the [Brechemin
Auditorium](http://www.music.washington.edu/facilities/index.php?pg=perf_spaces_box),
School of Music, University of Washington
[(Map)](http://www.washington.edu/home/maps/northcentral.html?71,72,869,363 "Map of UW Campus")
(Park in N6):

1.  Wednesday, June 16th, at 7:30pm
2.  Saturday, June 19th, at 3:00pm

Congressman [Jim McDermott](../../players.html#Jim-McDermott) will read
the part of Leopold Bloom on Saturday 19th.

Entrance is free, but donations are appreciated.

This is our seventh year of Bloomsday readings. [(Press
Release)](./2004/press-release.html).

Some [pictures](./2004/pictures.html) from our rehearsals.

Wandering Rocks
---------------

The Wandering Rocks chapter is the only chapter of James Joyce's Ulysses
with a brief, passing structural relationship to Homer. In Homer, Circe
warns Ulysses to avoid the Wandering Rocks because they were dangerous
for sea navigation. It is really taken from Jason and the Argonauts'
story of their perilous sea journey back to Corinth with the Golden
Fleece.

Joyce was reputed to have used a compass, ruler, set square, map and a
timepiece when he was constructing this episode. Here we are first fully
introduced to the Dublin of the early twentieth century, a city that the
book would eventually immortalise. Neither Stephen Dedalus nor Leopold
Bloom dominates the chapter. It is Joyce's "woman-city", Dublin that
becomes the essence of the story.

This is the central chapter of Joyce's book, offered in 19 scenes with
the 1st one functioning as a classic prologue and the 19th as an
epilogue. The Wandering Rocks serves as a bridge between the two halves
of the book and a miniature of the whole.

In true Joyce style, he used to play a board game called Labyrinth with
his daughter Lucia. What we are witnessing is that labyrinth transported
to the streets of Dublin. The characters of the city pass the
mid-afternoon hour of 3-4 p.m. Their comings and goings become framed
between the primary journeys of Church and State. Father Conmee
represents the Church, and the King's Governor General and his wife the
Lord and Lady Humble Dudley represent the State. The chapter is quite
cinematic in its visual presentation. Its conclusion is a city crowded
with people walking, talking running and singing!

Further background information on the Wandering Rocks chapter can be
found at the [Kennesaw guide to
Ulysses](http://ksumail.kennesaw.edu/~mglosup/ulysses/rocks.htm) and
[the Joyce portal](http://www.robotwisdom.com/jaj/ulysses/notes10.html).

Cast and Crew
-------------

  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Player                                                                        Roles
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  [Andrew Anderson](../../players.html#Andrew-Anderson)                         N7, Tom Rochford, huckster, Buck Mulligan.

  [Bill Barnes](../../players.html#Bill-Barnes)                                 N4, Simon Dedalus, Denis J. Maginni.

  [Emma Bartholomew](../../players.html#Emma-Bartholomew)                       N17, N2 (Sat), N12 (Sat), Boody Dedalus (Sat), "E.".

  [Don Berg](../../players.html#Don-Berg)                                       N15, Sailor, Blazes Boylan, Shopman, Crimmins.

  [Olivia Bermingham-McDonogh](../../players.html#Olivia-Bermingham-McDonogh)   N2 (Wed), N12 (Wed), N19-B (Wed), Boody Dedalus (Wed).

  [Helen Brew](../../players.html#Helen-Brew)                                   N16, Maggy Dedalus, Gerty MacDowell.

  [Conor Byrne](../../players.html#Conor-Byrne)                                 Fr Conmee, M'Coy, Ben Dollard, Mr Power, Dudley White.

  [Ray Crerand](../../players.html#Ray-Crerand)                                 N1, N18, Rev Love, Fr Cowley, Long John Fanning.

  [Margaret Donegan-Ryan](../../players.html#Margaret-Donegan-Ryan)             Dilly Dedalus, blond girl.

  [Maura Donegan](../../players.html#Maura-Donegan)                             N10, Mrs Sheehy, Maggy Dedalus, Miss Dunne.

  [Ann Glusker](../../players.html#Ann-Glusker)                                 Lady Dudley.

  [Michael Green](../../players.html#Michael-Green)                             N14, Boy2, Constable 57-C, Urchin, "Y.", Almidano Artifoni, Jimmy Henry, Master Dignam

  [Don Hirst](../../players.html#Don-Hirst)                                     Posters

  [Mary Kelly](../../players.html#Mary-Kelly)                                   Katey Dedalus, N9, Woman, N19-B (Sat). \
                                                                                 Publicity.

  [Joe Martin](../../players.html#Joe-Martin)                                   N3, "H.", Nosey Flynn, Martin Cunningham, Drunk, Richie Goulding

  [Jim McDermott](../../players.html#Jim-McDermott)                             Leopold Bloom (Sat)

  [Niall McDonnell](../../players.html#Niall-McDonnell)                         Stephen Dedalus, N8, blind stripling.

  [Scott McKinstry](../../players.html#Scott-McKinstry)                         N5, Leopold Bloom (Wed), Haines.

  [Nancy Mills](../../players.html#Nancy-Mills)                                 Producer.

  [Ciaran O'Mahony](../../players.html#Ciaran-O'Mahony)                         Corny Kelleher, N6, Ned Lambert, Lenehan, Auctioneer, Lacquey, Fr Cowley, "'S."

  [Kieran O'Malley](../../players.html#Kieran-O'Malley)                         Wandering Rock\
                                                                                 Director, dramaturge.

  [Lyndol Pullen](../../players.html#Lyndol-Pullen)                             Earl of Dudley.

  [George V. Reilly](../../players.html#George-Reilly)                          N11, "L.", J. J. O'Molloy, Mr Kernan, John Wyse Nolan, Cashel Boyle ... Farrell. \
                                                                                 Script wrangler, webmaster.

  [Meg Savlov](../../players.html#Meg-Savlov)                                   N13, N19-A, The Book.

  [Tina ?](../../players.html#Tina)                                             Stage Manager
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Other Events
------------

We will have an evening of [Poetry and Music of Evolution and
Revolution](./rEvolution.html) at the Brechemin Auditorium, on Sat 6th
November 2004. Join our [announcements list](../../announcements.html)
to be notified about future readings.

See our [archives](../../archives.html) for details of our previous
readings.
