[![[Goose]](../../../images/goose.gif)](../../../index.html)

The Other Bloomsday 2013 - Press Release
========================================

The Wild Geese Players of Seattle will present a staged reading of
Chapter 18, [“Penelope”](../2013.html) aka Molly Bloom’s Soliloquy,
adapted from the 1922 edition of James Joyce's *Ulysses*, on 3pm on
Sunday, June 16th, 2013, at [The Elliott Bay Book
Company](http://www.elliottbaybook.com/), 1521 Tenth Avenue, Seattle, WA
98122. Donations towards costs of posters and props are welcome.

It's 2am on June 17th, 1904, and Molly Bloom lies awake in the bed. We
are treated to Molly's innermost thoughts and ramblings, rendered as a
stream of consciousness, as she recalls her youth in Gibraltar and her
present day in Dublin, the loves of her life and the consummation of her
affair with Blazes Boylan, her lusts and female woes, and her wry
affection for her exasperating husband, Leopold Bloom.

Molly is funny and foul-mouthed, frank and earthy, and caustic yet
romantic. We're looking forward to reading her story, and to seeing you
listen to us.

The Wild Geese have been staging readings of Ulysses and other Irish
literature in Seattle since 1998. We are a diverse group of people with
an interest in Irish literature, and most of us are either Irish-born or
have Irish connections. More generally, Wild Geese refers to the [Irish
diaspora](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Irish_diaspora), after the
original [Wild
Geese](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flight_of_the_Wild_Geese), exiled
Irish soldiers and their descendants who served in European armies in
the 16th–18th centuries.

Contact: [www.WildGeeseSeattle.org](http://www.WildGeeseSeattle.org) |
[WildGeeseSeattle@gmail.com](mailto:WildGeeseSeattle@gmail.com)

\
\
 Promo video for Molly Bloom's Soliloquy
