[![[Goose]](../../../images/goose.gif)](../../../index.html)

The Other Bloomsday 2014 - Press Release
========================================

The Wild Geese Players of Seattle will present a staged reading of
Chapter 1, “Telemachus”, and Chapter 4, “Calypso”, adapted from the 1922
edition of James Joyce's *Ulysses*, on 2pm on Sunday, June 15th, 2014,
at [The Seattle Central
Library](http://www.spl.org/locations/central-library), 1000 Fourth Ave,
Seattle, WA 98104
[[Map](https://maps.google.com/maps?q=1000+Fourth+Avenue,+Seattle,+WA+98104)].
Donations towards costs of posters and props are welcome.

Each year, the Wild Geese Players stage a public reading to commemorate
this classic novel, which takes place entirely on June 16, 1904, also
known as Bloomsday. The readings started in 1998, and we have now
completed the entire novel, last year reaching the climax with the
concluding chapter - Molly Bloom's soliloquy.

This year, the cycle begins again. We'll be reading the 1st and 4th
chapters (known as Telemachus and Calypso), which are concurrent in the
novel. We'll begin with a brief introduction and explanation of the
analogs to Homer's Odyssey. While Ulysses is famously controversial,
difficult and lengthy, we've great success offering it in small, more
easily digested bites.

The Wild Geese Players stage readings of Irish literature, by writers
such as James Joyce and W.B. Yeats, throughout the Seattle area. We are
a diverse group of people with an interest in Irish literature, and most
of us are either Irish-born or have Irish connections. More generally,
the Wild Geese refers to the Irish diaspora, after the original Wild
Geese, exiled Irish soldiers and their descendants who served in
European armies in the 16th–18th centuries.

The reading is expected to take about 100 minutes.

Contact: [www.WildGeeseSeattle.org](http://www.WildGeeseSeattle.org) |
[WildGeeseSeattle@gmail.com](mailto:WildGeeseSeattle@gmail.com)
