[![[Goose]](../../../images/goose.gif)](../../../index.html)

The Other Bloomsday 2010 - Press Release
========================================

The Wild Geese Players of Seattle will perform a staged reading of Part
II of *Circe*, chapter 15 of James Joyce’s *Ulysses*, on Wednesday, June
16th, 2010, 7:00-9:15pm, at the [Good Shepherd
Center](http://www.historicseattle.org/projects/gsc.aspx), 4649
Sunnyside Avenue N, Seattle, WA 98103
([Map](http://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&source=s_q&hl=en&geocode=&q=4649+Sunnyside+Avenue+N,+Seattle,+WA+98103&sll=47.564626,-122.315652&sspn=0.010251,0.013797&ie=UTF8&hq=&hnear=4649+Sunnyside+Ave+N,+Seattle,+King,+Washington+98103&z=16)).
Donations towards costs of posters and props are welcome.

It is late on the night of June 16th, 1904, and Leopold Bloom has
followed Stephen Dedalus into Dublin's red-light district. Bloom has a
paternal concern for Stephen's welfare and knows that Stephen is now
very drunk. In the *Circe* chapter of Homer's *Odyssey*, the
witch-goddess Circe transforms Odysseus' crew into swine. In Joyce's
version, Bloom will have hallucinatory encounters with the denizens of
Nighttown and confront some of his deepest fantasies and fears, before
emerging victorious. This chapter is extraordinarily long. We performed
the first half [last year](../2009.html).

The Wild Geese have been staging readings of Ulysses and other Irish
literature in Seattle since 1998. We are a diverse group of people with
an interest in Irish literature, and most of us are either Irish-born or
have Irish connections. More generally, Wild Geese refers to the [Irish
diaspora](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Irish_diaspora), after the
original [Wild
Geese](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flight_of_the_Wild_Geese), exiled
Irish soldiers and their descendants who served in European armies in
the 16th–18th centuries.

[www.WildGeeseSeattle.org](http://www.WildGeeseSeattle.org)
